Updates Okta Guide for SAML IdP Init (#1778)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/samlv2-idp-initiated/okta.adoc

== Configure the FusionAuth Application Redirect URL

> Navigate to [breadcrumb]#Applications -> Your Application -> OAuth#. Update the [field]#Authorized redirect URLs# field. This URL is where a user will end up after authentication and may be any value URL.

Reviewer: Type, `value` -> `valid`.

And suggestion: 

> ... field with one more URLs. A redirect URL is where a user will end up after authentication and may be any valid URL.

[NOTE]
====

> By default, FusionAuth will use the first redirect specified in the link:/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/samlv2-idp-initiated/okta#configure-the-fusionauth-application-redirect-url[Application OAuth Configuration]. If you would like to specify a different redirect you can do so by configuring link:/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/samlv2-idp-initiated/okta#optional-adding-a-redirect-after-saml-login[Okta as below].

Reviewer: This reads a bit oddly.

> By default, FusionAuth will use the first redirect specified in the Application OAuth Configuration. If you would like to specify a different redirect you can do so by configuring Okta as below.

Suggestion:

> When a redirect URI is not specified, the first configured value will be utilized. To specify a specific redirect URL, following the instructions below.

* Set the value of the [field]#Single sign on URL# to the value of the [field]#Callback URL (ACS)# from the FusionAuth Identity Provider recorded above.
* Set the value of the [field]#Audience URI (SP Entity ID)# to the value of the [field]#Issuer# recorded above.

> * Optionally set the value of [field]#Default RelayState# if you want to provide a specific redirect URI. If this value is omitted, the first Authorized redirect URI found in the FusionAuth Application OAuth configuration will be used. This option is supported in FusionAuth version greater than or equal to `1.41.0`. In prior versions, append `redirect_uri=` to the value specified [field]#Single sign on URL# to control the final redirect URI.  For more information link:/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/samlv2-idp-initiated/okta#optional-adding-a-specific-redirect-after-saml-login[see section below].

Reviewer: Suggestion:

>  append a query parameter`redirect_uri=` to the value specified in ...

We may want to note that the value that comes after the equal sign should be URL encoded.

* Set the [field]#Application username# to be `Email`.

image::identity-providers/idp-initiated/okta-sign-on-advanced-settings.png[Configure Okta with the FusionAuth SP information,width=1200]
There are a few optional workflows (adding a persistent Id, sending over an email attribute, and configuring a custom redirect) you can employ listed below in the next *two* sections.  If these are not needed, please save the Okta application by clicking [breadcrumb]#"Next"# until complete and skip down.

=== Optional: Adding a Specific Redirect After SAML login

> *Scenario:* you want a user to return to a specific redirect url after SAML auth is complete, there are two options to specify this url:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want a user to return to a specific redirect url after SAML authentication is complete, there are two options to specify this URL:
```

1. Add to Relay State field
- As of version `1.41.0` FusionAuth allows adding a redirect in the relay state.
- Simply add something like `https://hooli.com` to the [field]#Default RelayState# in your Okta configuration.
2. Add to the ACS
- You can append your redirect to the [field]#Single sign-on URL# (ACS)
- Example: +

> `<host>/samlv2/acs/22cea679-83af-422a-806a-baae792b3ab9/85a03867-dccf-4882-adde-1a79aeec50df?redirect_uri=http://hooli.com`

Reviewer: This should be `https://<host>`

Reviewer 2: Or even `https://example.com/samlv2/acs/22cea679-83af-422a-806a-baae792b3ab9/85a03867-dccf-4882-adde-1a79aeec50df?redirect_uri=http://hooli.com`

https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2606.html reserves example.com

> `<host>/samlv2/acs/22cea679-83af-422a-806a-baae792b3ab9/85a03867-dccf-4882-adde-1a79aeec50df?redirect_uri=http://hooli.com`

Reviewer: Technically `http://hooli.com` would need to be URL encoded here which is `http%3A%2F%2Fhooli.com`.

image::identity-providers/idp-initiated/saml-acs-and-relay-state.png[Showing Setting the Relay and ACS values,width=1200, role=bottom-cropped]

The above values will need to be added to the link:/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/samlv2-idp-initiated/okta#configure-the-fusionauth-application-redirect-url[Authorized redirect URLs] OAuth configuration of your application in FusionAuth. Additional information can be found link:/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/samlv2-idp-initiated/#saml-v2-integration-details[in our SAML. overview documentation].

=== Optional: Setting a Persistent Id and Sending Email as an Attribute

> Ensure you are still on the Configure SAML Tab.  This can be found by navigating as follows from the App homepage: [breadcrumb]#General > SAML Settings > Edit Button > General Settings > Next Button > Configure SAML# tab in the Okta Admin screen.

Reviewer 2: We typically use one space after a period. For some reason there are two spaces here.

> At times it may be helpful to receive a completely unique and immutable id from Okta and tie this to the new FusionAuth user (this is the value of a persistent SAML NameID).  To do this, on the `Edit SAML Integration` Okta (current) screen please click `Add Another` under the `Attribute Statements` section.  Under the [field]#Name# field enter `userId`, for [field]#Name format# leave as `Unspecified`, and finally, for [field]#Value# enter `user.id`. With this attribute added, Okta will be sending over a persistent Id for each user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At times it may be helpful to receive a unique and immutable id from Okta and tie this to the new FusionAuth user (this is the value of a persistent SAML NameID). To enable this, on the `Edit SAML Integration` Okta (current) screen please click `Add Another` under the `Attribute Statements` section.  Under the [field]#Name# field enter `userId`, for [field]#Name format# leave as `Unspecified`, and finally, for [field]#Value# enter `user.id`. With this attribute added, Okta will be sending over a persistent Id for each user.
```

Why is it useful/helpful? I'd like to know (even just one example).

You can also instruct Okta to send over another attribute in the AuthN Response of email (useful for when link:/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/#linking-strategies[linking strategy] is based on email). Under the [field]#Name# field enter `email`, for [field]#Name format# leave as `Unspecified`, and finally for [field]#Value# enter `user.email`.

image::identity-providers/idp-initiated/okta-add-attribute-statements.png[Add Persistent Id and email attribute statements,width=1200, role=bottom-cropped]

> By adding these two values you will be sending an AuthN Response similar to the below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By configuring Okta to send these two values you will be receiving an AuthN Response similar to the below:
```

```Xml
<saml2p:Response xmlns:saml2p="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:protocol" ... >
// ...
    <saml2:AttributeStatement xmlns:saml2="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:assertion">
      <saml2:Attribute Name="email" NameFormat="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:unspecified">

>         <saml2:AttributeValue xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema" xsi:type="xs:string">joshua@fusionauth.io</saml2:AttributeValue>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        <saml2:AttributeValue xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema" xsi:type="xs:string">richard@fusionauth.io</saml2:AttributeValue>
```
